---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anonymous FTP server:	cherupakha.media.mit.edu (18.85.0.47)
This file:		~ftp/pub/6270/docs/README
Last updated:		Fri Oct 22 11:12:21 1993
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This directory contains ``The 6.270 Robot Builder's Guide,'' the
course notes to the 1992 MIT LEGO Robot Design Competition.

The rest of this file explains how to retrieve and print a copy on a
PostScript printer.  Alternatively, you may wish to order a printed
and spiral-bound copy for $15 postpaid.

To order a copy, send a check (payable in U.S. funds only) made out to
"MIT Epistemology and Learning" to:

	Epistemology and Learning Publications
	MIT Media Laboratory
	20 Ames Street Room E15-309
	Cambridge, MA 02139

Request the ``Robot Builder's Guide.''  

[If you would like to receive a copy of Interactive C for MS-DOS on
diskette, please include a FORMATTED 3.5" HD diskette with your
publication order and include a note indicating that you want IC
copied onto the disk.  Please, only order the software if you do not
have any electronic access.]

[If you would like a copy of the software, but you are -not- ordering
a copy of the documentation, please include a self-addressed stamped
envelope for return, along with your formatted HD diskette.]


PRINTING NOTES

Individual chapters, appendices, and the preface may be printed on any
PostScript printer.  Please don't try to print on a non-PostScript
printer; you will waste lots of paper and get system adminstrators mad
at you.

All PostScript files have been compressed using the Unix "compress"
utility.  When you retrieve the files with FTP, make sure to first
enter binary mode by typing "binary" at the FTP prompt.

To print a chapter, use the following command:

	zcat <chaptername.PS> | lpr -P<printername>

For example, to print the preface use the following:

	zcat preface.PS | lpr -P<printername>

(For those of you with MS-DOS PCs, the utility "COMP430D" is a public
domain Unix-format compress/uncompress for MS-DOS available from many
archive sites.)

Please contact Fred Martin at fredm@media.mit.edu if you have any
questions or problems in printing out the document.  Comments are also
welcome.

The most common printing problem will occur when you are printing the
doc's to a printer on a Macintosh network.  If the printer has been
used by a Mac running Mac OS System 6, it will have had installed in
its RAM a LaserPrep dictionary that will conflict with the PostScript
files, causing printing to stop on particular pages.  The solution to
this is to reboot the printer and then re-print the file, submitting
the print job *before* any other Mac print job is allowed to run.


This document was updated Mon Nov 30 15:02:05 1992 to reflect a new
version of the board set, Version 2.11, which fixes some bugs in the
old version (2.10).  The bug-fixes for the old board set are now gone;
contact me if you need them for some reason.

As of Fri Oct 22 11:09:16 1993, the current revision of the 6.270
board set is 2.21.  This manual covers the older 2.11 board set;
however, the differences between the two versions are small.  See the
file DS1233-instructions.txt in this directory for instructions on how
to upgrade a 2.11 board, and the file
pub/6270/rev2.21-assembly/v211-vs-221-differences.txt for an
explanation of the differences between the boards.  Also, the file
pub/6270/rev2.21-assembly/assembly221-fixed.ps.Z contains assembly
directions for the current board revision. 


A brief table of contents:


FILE		DESCRIPTION
----------------------------------------------------------------------
coverart.PS.Z	Cover to the Robot Builder's Guide.


preface.PS.Z	Introduction to the Robot Builder's Guide.
		Includes table of contents, list of figures,
		    copyright notice.

		Pages i to xxiv.


chapter1.PS.Z	Assembly manual for all of the 6.270 hardware,
		including the Microprocessor Board, sensors,
		motors, and batteries.

		Pages 1 to 58.

chapter2.PS.Z	Motors.  DC motors, servo motors, stepper motors.

		Pages 59 to 66.


chapter3.PS.Z	Batteries.  Ratings, specifications, types.  The
		6.270 battery charger.

		Pages 67 to 72.


chapter4.PS.Z	LEGO Design.  How to build with the LEGO Technics (R)
		building system.

		Pages 73 to 80.


chapter5.PS.Z	Sensor Design.  Information about analog, digital sensors;
		photocell, touch, bend, infrared, shaft encoder, and
		other sensors.

		Pages 81 to 96.


chapter6.PS.Z	Robot Control methods.  How to program mobile robots
		for robust performance in dynamic environments.

		Pages 97 to 114.


chapter7.PS.Z	The Interactive C language User's Guide.  Introduction
		and reference manual to the IC language system
		developed by Randy Sargent and Fred Martin.

		Pages 115 to 156.


appendxa.PS.Z	Introduction to the 6.270 Course.  Includes
		1992 class schedule and contest rules.

		Pages 157 to 182.


appendxb.PS.Z	6.270 Hardware.  Tutorial and technical reference 
		document on the 6.270 hardware, including the
		Microprocessor Board, Expansion Board, and infrared
		transmission system.

		Pages 183 to 214.


appendxc.PS.Z	Printed Circuit Layouts.  Full size reproductions of
		the printed circuit artwork for the 1992 6.270
		board set.

		Pages 215 to 220.


appendxd.PS.Z	Electronic Suppliers listing.  A list of over 20
		top suppliers for robotic scientists and hobbyists.

		Pages 221 to 230.


The following files are updates to the first release of the course
notes: 

6811intr.PS.Z	Introduction to programming the 6811 microprocessor.
		Some information is out of date with the '92 hardware,
		but the overall content is relevant to those
		interested in writing any 6811 assembly code.

sencdr.txt	Explanation, CPU load for use of shaft encoder
		routines.  There are some changes from the original
		printed notes.
	
benchmrk.txt	Explanation of benchmark() function defined in
		library file "benchmrk.c".

spkrhack.PS.Z	Instructions describing how to use Motor port 5
		as a speaker driver.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

		
This entire document is Copyright (C) 1992 by Fred Martin.

Distribution information and permission is contained in the preface.
The copyright notice printed in the preface must accompany any
distribution of this document other than non-commercial personal use,
as per the terms specified therein.
